Throughout the summer, this is what was completed:

1. Data extraction -> was able to successfully extract thermal and optical images into separate files utilizing the flyr package.
2. Metadata extraction -> was able to extract metadata that may be useful in future endeavors. Also extracted pixel temperature values.
3. semi-automatic alignment -> was able to create a semi automatic algorithm that aligns the optical image to
the thermal image using cv2 affine transformation functions.
4. ROI mask -> was able to draw ROI mask on optical image and see it on thermal image. Created binary mask that helps define ROI for temperature
values. 
5. temperature data -> utilized the ROI mask to find the min temp, max temp, std, and number of pixels inside the mask


Future direction:
- Change in time(extracting time data) -> currently metadata times are completely inaccurate. There may be a way to correlate the time differentials
found in the metadata and the times written in the excel sheets by Katie. (will most likely have to edit the metadata python file)

- Automatic alignment -> over the summer, there wassimply no way to automatically align the images
through a ML algorithm or cv2 functions. The image quality was not usable a lot of the time.
    - tried to use canny/sobel edge detection algorithms, downscaling, and the medium article found here: https://medium.com/@aswinvb/how-to-perform-thermal-to-visible-image-registration-c18a34894866
    - I also tried using the medium article function, averaging out the values, and seeing if offsets could be corrected through
    averaging but that was also a failed attempt, especially with different variables like different camera people or different conditions.
    
- Automatic ROI finder -> in the future, if the circles are more defined and the circles are clearly
labeled on images, this may be viable and would increase the efficiency of the process. Currently, There
are setbacks in terms of image quality and the circle not being there at all.


- Concentric circles and control circles -> after finding the ROI above, we need to be able to get temperature
data for a control circle. This circle will most likely be to the right of the original circle. Bare in mind,
that this may not work; since the circle may hover over areas that are not on the patients body or get covered by clothes.
For the concentric circles, we want to get a certain ratio of circle that is bigger and smaller than the original
ROI mask and find the different values that we had found before such as min/max temp, std.


Currently, the files are being directly connected through sharepoint. So make sure that if you want
to use any of this code, you have onedrive synce and made a shortcut for the folder called: SCRG
After that, there should not be any problems using the code. For each file, remember that the base directory
is always going to be SCRG. You can change the file path as you like and an example of how the code structures
file path can be found in About_miscfolderfunction.txt in the misc_folder_functions folder.

For package information and what the files do, I suggest looking at About_data_processing.txt first, and then the individual 
about folders in each of the subdirectories.

I learned a lot during the summer, and I hope that you are able to improve upon the code and 
bring further progress to the research work! Have fun!

Andrew Chung 08/23/24